[docs] Model API (#3562)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/api/models/transformer2d.mdx

# Transformer2D

> A Transformer model for image-like data. [`Transformer2DModel`] accepts discrete (classes of vector embeddings) or continuous (actual embeddings) inputs.

Reviewer: Do we know anything concrete about its origin? Might be good to include that. 

@patrickvonplaten

Reviewer 2: It comes from the CompVis repo, but really it's just a copy of the orignial ViT paper from Google.

When the input is **continous**:

1. Project the input and reshape it to `(b, t, d)`.

> 2. Apply standard Transformer action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Apply the Transformer blocks in the standard manner.
```

Reviewer: Maybe also include some examples where continuous embeddings are used as opposed to discrete would be nice.

> 1. Project the input and reshape it to `(b, t, d)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Project the input and reshape it to `(batch_size, sequence_length, feature_dimension)`.
```

3. Reshape to image.

When the input is **discrete**:

<Tip>

It is assumed one of the input classes is the masked latent pixel. The predicted classes of the unnoised image don't contain a prediction for the masked pixel because the unnoised image cannot be masked.

</Tip>

1. Convert input (classes of latent pixels) to embeddings and apply positional embeddings.
2. Apply standard Transformer action.

> 3. Predict classes of unnoised image.

Reviewer: Same as https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/pull/3562/files#r1212553604 and https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/pull/3562/files#r1212554581.
